but when the male European mantis goes
courting he may well lose more than his
heart
[Music]
his female isn't as large as the banded
mantis but she can be just as
unpredictable he uses his feelers to
calm her down
[Music]
mating begins but this female has a
double agenda
[Music]
is this a loving kiss or something more
sinister in exchange for his trouble the
male gets his head bitten off but it
doesn't seem to grab his style
a decapitated male can carry on mating
for several hours the females eggs will
still be fertilized
a separate mini brain in his tail kicks
in and actually speeds up his
performance
eating her mate gives the female extra
protein to lay more eggs so the male's
loss is his offsprings gain it's a kind
of happy ending after all
[Music]